
# TravelReservationPublic
Public repository for TravelReservation. This project is a travel reservation system (similar to Expedia) that allows users to book flights based on their chosen criteria. The tech stack included Java (JDBC, JSP, Servlets), Apache Tomcat, and MySQL Community Server. While this code extends and goes beyond classroom-required functionality, no code is published since this project is used for other sections. 

[Link to demo video hosted on Google Drive](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1onNKMmltZkMNH3-XaeFHg2nCf-UonOPD/view?usp=sharing)

DISCLAIMER: I did not create the demo video and the video does not demonstrate all of the project functionality. In addition, the focus of the project was working with a database using a Java backend, so the overall design is plain with no CSS. 

### Contributions to the project, in addition to testing all aspects of the project:
1. User functionality
- Let people search for flights between two airports
- one way on a specific date 
- round-trip on specific dates 
- one way or roundtrip on flexible dates (+/- 3 days) 
- browse the resulting flights 
- front-end for sorting flights by different criteria (price, take-off time, landing time, duration of flight)  
- front-end for filtering the list of flights by various criteria (price, number of stops, airline, take-off time, landing time) 

2. Admin
- Add, Edit information and Delete a customer representative or customer 
- Obtain a sales report for a particular month 
- Produce a list of reservations by flight number or by customer name 
- Produce a summary listing of revenue generated by a particular flight, airline, or customer 
- Find out which customer generated most total revenue 
- Produce a list of most active flights (most tickets sold) 

3. Customer Representative (25 points)
- Make flight reservations on behalf of users (repurposed from admin)
- Edit flight reservations for a customer (repurposed from admin)
- Add, Edit, Delete information for aircrafts
- Add, Edit, Delete information for airports
- Add, Edit, Delete information for flights 
- Retrieve a list of all the passengers who are on the waiting list of a particular flight 
- Produce a list of all flights for a given airport (departing and arriving) 

### Learning moments:
- GitHub and teamwork. I've used pull requests before, but this project allowed me to manage pull requests, merge conflicts, and practice working in a group environment.
- Web programming with Java and Java Server Pages. Prior to this project, I was familiar with technologies like Flask and the Express.js/Node.js for backend development. This project allowed me to extend my knowledge of other languages to work with Java.
- Development with MySQL. The databases for my other projects included MongoDB and SQLite, so this was my first time using MySQL and MySQL Workbench.
- Debugging. The project required a significant amount of debugging and testing, which required generating sample data to input into the program. Since we used filters and had different outputs for different months, the test cases had to be intentional and we could not simply use random numbers or random strings of characters.

### Concluding Remarks
I thoroughly enjoyed working on this project. There were quite a few things I would like to add in the future like a better UI/UX and hosting the project, but based on business needs, the solution works and provides all necessary functionality.

Thank you for reading this write-up! If you have any questions feel free to send me an email at leo.lawrence@rutgers.edu or find me on [LinkedIn](https://linkedin.com/in/leozlawrence).
